How to use induction based on the length of the derivation and the string to prove one specific formal non-linear grammar recognizes one language?

I tried to solve exercise 13-supplementary-4 in Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications 8th by Kenneth Rosen:
> For Exercises 3 and 4, let G = (V, T, S, P) be the context-free grammar with V = { (, ), S, A, B }, T = { (, )}, starting sym-bol S, and productions $S \to A, A \to AB, A \to B, B \to (A)$, and
$B \to (), S \to \lambda$.
> 
> 4- Show that L(G) is the set of all balanced strings of paren-theses, defined in the preamble to Supplementary Exercise 59 in Chapter 5.

the preamble to Supplementary Exercise 59 in Chapter 5
>The set B of all balanced strings of parentheses is defined recursively by $\lambda \in B$, where $\lambda$ is the empty string; $(x) \in B, xy \in B$ if $x, y \in B$.

1. I read [the reference QA](https://cs.stackexchange.com/a/11316/161388)
   > but it's bound to be more arduous with *nested inductions* and what not.

   As it says, the nested induction $A\to B,B\to (A)$ and non-linear property in $A \to AB$ make $M_i$ more complex.

2. Compared with [one QA I asked before](https://cs.stackexchange.com/a/166984/161388), here grammar  derivation is not deterministic.
   > One thing to note is that the machine is deterministic

---

Since all methods to prove I know all seem to fail, I read the answer:
> It can be proved by induction on *the length of the derivation* that every terminal string derivable from A or B is a well-formed string of parentheses. It follows that the language generated by this grammar is contained in the set of well-formed strings of parentheses. Conversely, it can be proved by induction on *the length of the string* that every well-formed string of parentheses is derivable from this grammar

I followed [one similar QA_3](https://cs.stackexchange.com/q/4905/161388) although it is about DFA. In QA_3 it only cares about the number of 1. But here we cares about the number of symbols $(,)$ and also about *their relative locations*.

For the answer of QA_3, here the situation is more complex because the derivation difference *is more variant*. For one well-formed string of parentheses $w\in \Sigma^*$ where $\Sigma$ is the terminal symbol set, we can 
1. insert one $($ inside $w$ and then append one $)$.
2. append $()$
3. insert $()$ anywhere inside $w$

So I thought it is not easy to prove based on 'the length of the string' for the 'Conversely' part.

---

- For the 'Conversely' part of the book answer, we can use the definition of 'balanced strings of parentheses'.
  1. $\lambda$ is trivially recognized by the above grammar.
  2. $(x)$: Let $x$ corresponding derivation be $X$. Then remove $S\to A$ possibly, we get $X'$. Then $(x)$ can be got using 
    $S\to A\to B\to (A)$ where we continues doing $X'$ 
    (if $x=\lambda$, then we do $B\to ()$ instead).
  3. $xy$ (here assume $x,y\neq \lambda$): Here for $x$, we must get to one intermediate situation $\overbrace{B\cdots B}^{f(x)\ \text{times}}$ 
    (similar for $y$).
    Then we can get $xy$ by using $S\to^{*}\overbrace{B\cdots B}^{f(x)+f(y)\ \text{times}}$ and then do separately for $x$ and $y$.

- For the other direction, when given one derivation $K$, we can only modify it as follows if each modification is *the minimal possible modification*:
  1. $S\to \lambda \Rightarrow S\to A\to B$
  2. add one $A\to AB$ when generating $B$ from $A$.
  Since *the most inner* $B\to()$ and the outer $B\to (A)$ are all balanced, so the modification keeps 'balanced strings of parentheses'.

Q:

Is it possible for the proof 'by induction on *the length of the string* that every well-formed string of parentheses is derivable from this grammar'? If not, is the above proof using "the definition of 'balanced strings of parentheses'" right?

Is the above proof 'by induction on *the length of the derivation*' right where the length step is *totally variant*?

---

Time wasted, this QA is already solved in [this recommended QA](https://cs.stackexchange.com/q/153049/161388) when editing the above QA. The proof is totally same as the book but more detailed.
Also see [link1](http://cse.iitkgp.ac.in/%7Eabhij/course/theory/FLAT/Spring21/scribes/CFG-balanced.pdf) referred to.

link1
- $\beta_1 S\beta_2$ where $\beta_{1,2}$ are something unchanged.
($\Leftarrow$)
  - > (Check for yourself)
    trivial in Case (a)
  - > Then it must be that x = [z].
    this is trivial when knowing $x=[y]z$ which can be also seen as $y'z$
    Then "Case (b)" means $z=\lambda$.
  - here "(i) and (ii)" is to ensure "x is balanced".
- > when α is a sentence x
  may mean $\neq \lambda$

QA
- the "former condition" is similar to the following SO QA.
- Here $S\to SS$ is omitted out of consideration because they will all become $E$ or $(S)$, see SO QA.
- > the production S→(S) keeps the sentential form balanced.
  uses condition (ii) in link1 implicitly.

Notice this QA and the following SO QA doesn't care about 

---

Also see [this SO QA](https://stackoverflow.com/a/42565842/21294350) which is based on [the balance of opening and closing parentheses](https://math.stackexchange.com/a/1632885/1059606)

> have all of its S changed into (S)
more strictly, or `E`. Then both cases are already contained.

> since x is balanced, thus (x) is balanced and (x)y = w is too.
This uses condition (ii) in link1 implicitly.

> But them both are generated by the grammar, and the grammar generates (x)y since it contains the production S => (S)S
i.e. $S\to (S)S$ then the left $S\to^{*(1)} x$ and the right $S\to^{*(2)} y$.
Notice this process is a bit like generating the string *from the outer to the inner*.

---

> by induction on the length of the derivation that every terminal string derivable from A or B is a well-formed string of parentheses

$S\to \lambda$ is trivial. Then $S\to A$ is necessary. Then $A\to AB\mid B$
~~Then $B\to (A)$ is where causes 'the length of the derivation' changed.~~ Then use the induction  of the right A,B are balanced.

> by induction on the length of the string that every well-formed string of parentheses is derivable from this grammar.

trivially use $(x)y$ where $y$ can be $\lambda$. This one combines the above point 2 and 3 into one.