[mcs.pdf][1] Problem 16.8:
> The answer derived by generating functions for the “absurd” counting problem
in Section 16.2.6 is *not impossibly complicated at all*. Describe a *direct simple
counting argument* to derive this answer without using generating functions.

Section 16.2.6:
> But here is an absurd counting problem—really over the top! In how many
ways can we fill a bag with n fruits subject to the following constraints?
> - The number of apples must be even.
> - The number of bananas must be a multiple of 5.
> - There can be at most four oranges.
> - There can be at most one pear.
>
> ...
>
> The Convolution Rule says that the generating function for choosing from among
all four kinds of fruit is: $$\begin{align*}
A(x)B(x)O(x)P(x)&=\frac{1}{1-x^2}\frac{1}{1-x^5}\frac{1-x^5}{1-x}(1+x)\\\\
&=\frac{1}{(1-x)^2}\\\\
&=1+2x+3x^2+4x^3+\cdots
\end{align*}$$

Here $A(x)$ is the generating function for choosing apples. Similar for others which use the first letter capitalized in the corresponding word as the abbreviation.

---

My attempt based on recurrence:

I solved from the simple one, i.e. pear. Let the total ways to count be $S(n)$. Let $P'(n)$ denote the number of ways after already choosing the number of pears. So $S(n)=P'(n)+P'(n-1)$. Then let $O'(n)$ denote the number of ways after already choosing the number of pears and oranges. Then $P'(n)=\sum_{i=0}^{\min(n,4)}O'(n-i)$.

Then I am stuck. If similarly we let $B'(n)$ denote the number of ways after already choosing the number of pears, oranges and bananas, then we have $O'(n)=\sum_{i=0}^{\lfloor n/5\rfloor}B'(n-i\cdot 5)$. Now the formula seems to be a bit complex.

---

If directly assuming we know the answer and use induction, we can let  inductive hypothesis $I(n)$ be that $n$ fruits has $n+1$ ways to choose. But in inductive step, $I(n+1)$ is probably *not directly adding one case* because they are choosing the different numbers $n$ and $n+1$ of fruits. We probably need one *stronger inductive hypothesis* but I don't know how to construct that one?

Q:

How to solve the above problem using one *direct simple counting argument without using generating functions* as the problem states?

This is solved in [this QA](https://math.stackexchange.com/a/479974/1059606)

  [1]: https://courses.csail.mit.edu/6.042/spring18/mcs.pdf