In [spring18 mcs.pdf][1], it has Problem 3.24 (reduction from circuit-SAT to 3SAT using Tseytin transformation) which is referred to in chapter 9.12. Problem 3.25 (reduction from SAT to 3SAT. IMHO similar to Tseytin transformation) is related to that. (I only solve somewhat important problems referred to in the chapter contents because I have learnt one Discrete Mathematics book before and read mcs to ensure no importants things are  omitted.)

These 2 problems have long description. Since I have questions about part of them, I give one excerpt.

IMHO Problem 3.25,24 is almost same as [this wikipedia example][2] although with one different formula. I can understand these 2 problems  except for (b) in Problem 3.25:
> we might use new variables $X_1,X_2,O$ and A corresponding to the operator occurrences as follows:
  $$
  ((P \underbrace{\text{ XOR }}_{X_1} Q) \underbrace{\text{ XOR }}_{X_2} R) \underbrace{\text{ OR }}_{O} (\overline{P} \underbrace{\text{ AND }}_{A} S)
  $$
Next we write a formula that constrains each new variable to have the same truth
value as the subformula determined by its corresponding operator. For the example
above, these constraining formulas would be
  $$
  X_1 \text{ IFF } (P \text{ XOR } Q)\\
  \ldots
  $$
(b) Explain why each constraining formula will be equivalent to a 3CNF formula
with at most 24 occurrences of variables

In the above wikipedia link it at most have 12 occurrences like ${\displaystyle ({\overline {A}}\vee {\overline {B}}\vee C)\wedge (A\vee B\vee C)\wedge (A\vee {\overline {B}}\vee {\overline {C}})\wedge ({\overline {A}}\vee B\vee {\overline {C}})}$ for XNOR. 

Since the above gate list in wikipedia is incomplete [lacking something][3] like IMPLY. But IMPLY means something like $\neg A\lor B$ which can be reduced to ${\displaystyle ({\overline {A}}\vee {\overline {C_1}})\wedge (A\vee C_1)\land {\displaystyle (C_1\vee B\vee {\overline {C_2}})\wedge ({\overline {C_1}}\vee C_2)\wedge ({\overline {B}}\vee C_2)}}$ which has 11 occurrences. Similarly, NIMPLY has also 11 occurrences.

Since $24=3\cdot 2^3$, it seems that the problem mean the extreme situation where 3CNF take all possible $2^3$ disjunctive clauses with 3 literals. But that is impossible to output T since $A\lor B\lor C$ and $\overline {A}\lor \overline {B}\lor \overline {C}$ are impossible to both hold.


  [1]: https://courses.csail.mit.edu/6.042/spring18/mcs.pdf
  [2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tseytin_transformation#Simple_combinatorial_logic
  [3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logical_connective