In [mcs.pdf][1], it has Problem 7.26

> Problem 7.26. (a) Write out the evaluation of
$$
\text{eval}(\text{subst}(3x, x(x-1)),2)
$$
according to *the Environment Model and the Substitution Model*, indicating where
the rule for each case of the recursive definitions of $\text{eval}(,)$ and [:=] or substitution
is first used. Compare the number of arithmetic operations and variable lookups.
>
> (b) Describe an example along the lines of part (a) where the Environment Model
would perform 6 fewer multiplications than the Substitution model. You need not
carry out the evaluations.
> 
> (c) Describe an example along the lines of part (a) where the Substitution Model
would perform 6 fewer multiplications than the Environment model. You need not
carry out the evaluations.

Here "the Environment Model" means:
>  This approach is described by the expression
$$
\text{eval}(x(x-1),\text{eval}(3x, 2))
$$

and "the Substitution Model" means as the original expression says.

---

For a) the book says:
> The Environment Model only *computes the value of $3x$ once*, and so it requires *one fewer multiplication* than the Substitution model to compute

More specifically, IMHO the above sentence means "the Substitution Model" will have $x(x-1)\to 3x(3x-1)\xrightarrow{x=2} (3\cdot 2)\cdot((3\cdot 2)-1)$ which has 3 multiplications while "the Environment Model" will have $x(x-1)\xrightarrow{x=3\cdot 2}6\cdot(6-1)$ which has 2 multiplications totally in the process.

---

For b,c) we can generally assume we want to calculate $\text{eval}(\text{subst}(f(x), g(x)),n)$ (Notice the Base cases and Constructor cases of $\text{eval}(,)$ all have the forms like $\text{eval}(x,n)$ or $\text{eval}([e_1+e_2],n)$ where square brackets are used by the book to highlight the precedence. So I assume $n$ instead of something like $k(n)$).

Let $f_m(x),g_m(x)$ be the multiplication count in the corresponding polynomial and $g_x(x)$ be the occurence count of $x$ in $g(x)$.

Then "the Substitution Model" will have multiplication count $f_m(x)g_x(x)+g_m(x)$ while "the Environment Model" will have $f_m(x)+g_m(x)$

Since $g_x(x),f_m(x)\ge 0$, it seems that we can only make "the Environment Model" has fewer multiplications than "the Substitution Model", but not for the converse direction.

Then how to solve the c) part of the problem?

-- 

*Solved*:

We can let $g_x(x)=0$, then
> "the Environment Model" has fewer multiplications than "the Substitution Model"

  [1]: https://courses.csail.mit.edu/6.042/spring17/mcs.pdf